OSDOCS-9225 Create External DNS Release Notes Page (#70351)
openshift/openshift-docs: networking/external_dns_operator/external-dns-operator-release-notes.adoc

// ExternalDNS Operator Release Notes
:_mod-docs-content-type: ASSEMBLY
[id="external-dns-operator-release-notes"]
= ExternalDNS Operator release notes
:context: external-dns-operator-release-notes
include::_attributes/common-attributes.adoc[]

toc::[]

> The ExternalDNS Operator deploys and manages DNS external to the node.

Reviewer: I have 3 questions about this for your consideration. I'm not sure if any of these are relevant, but I'm just thinking out loud:

1. external DNS? I don't see any instances of "DNS external" in our docs: 
2. _to_ the node, or _on_ the node? 
3. "external DNS" <something>. Is it just external DNS? could it be like external DNS **infrastructure**? or maybe **resource**? sometimes in our docs its written as `ExternalDNS` with backticks and sometimes it isn't. I swear I'm not trying to open a can of worms here. It may be context dependent (i.e., when it is, when it isn't in backticks, and when it is/isn't capitalized). 

**BEYOND THE SCOPE OF THIS PR** I was looking up was ExternalDNS Operator was and landed on this page: https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.10/networking/external_dns_operator/understanding-external-dns-operator.html 

There are some instances were ExternalDNS is in backticks, somewhere its written as ExternalDNS, and others where its written as "External DNS". On that page it's called the "External DNS Operator", but in the first sentence of the procedure, it says "You can deploy the ExternalDNS Operator on demand ". I'm not sure if this is your area but it might be worth fixing at some point, if you want. 

So it could be: 
```suggestion
The ExternalDNS Operator deploys and manages external DNS on the node.
```

These release notes track the development of the ExternalDNS Operator in {product-title}.

[id="external-dns-operator-release-notes-1.2.0"]
== ExternalDNS Operator 1.2.0

The following advisory is available for the ExternalDNS Operator version 1.2.0:

> * link:https://errata.devel.redhat.com/advisory/123003[RHEA-2022:5867 ExternalDNS Operator 1.0 operator/operand containers]

Reviewer: We don't actually link to the errata. Customers won't be able to see this because it's behind our VPN. We link to access.redhat.com. So the correct link would be:

And would you want 1.2 here? because I think that's the actual release: 

```suggestion
* link:https://access.redhat.com/errata/RHEA-2023:7239[RHEA-2022:5867 ExternalDNS Operator 1.2 operator/operand containers]
```

> == New features

Reviewer: Suggest making a level 3 heading and adding an ID:

```suggestion
[id="external-dns-operator-1.2.0-new-features"]
=== New features
```

ExternalDNS now supports sharedVPC.

For more information, see xref:../../networking/external_dns_operator/nw-creating-dns-records-on-aws.adoc#nw-control-dns-records-public-aws-with-VPC_creating-dns-records-on-aws[Creating DNS records on an public hosted zone for AWS by using Red Hat External DNS Operator].

[id="external-dns-operator-1.2.0-bug-fixes"]
=== Bug fixes

> * Previously, ExternalDNS Operator issued an unnecessary warning during standard ExternalDNS operand pod deployments.

Reviewer: I usually note a resolution in some way:

```suggestion
* Previously, ExternalDNS Operator issued an unnecessary warning during standard ExternalDNS operand pod deployments. This issue has been resolved.
```

*  link:https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=2086408[BZ#2086408]

[id="external-dns-operator-release-notes-1.1.0"]
== ExternalDNS Operator 1.1.0

> This release included a rebase of the operand from the upstream project version 0.13.1. The following advisory is available for the ExternalDNS Operator version 1.1.0:

Reviewer: Here, we say "the ExternalDNS Operator," but oftentimes we don't have an article to accompany it. Should we use an article or not? probably should try and stay consistent :)

> * link:https://errata.engineering.redhat.com/advisory/105011[RHEA-2022:9086-01 ExternalDNS Operator 1.1 operator/operand containers]

Reviewer: See note above. 

```suggestion
* link:https://access.redhat.com/errata/RHEA-2022:9086[RHEA-2022:9086-01 ExternalDNS Operator 1.1 operator/operand containers]
```

[id="external-dns-operator-1.1.0-bug-fix"]
=== Bug fixes

> * Previously, the ExternalDNS Operator operands default enforced empty defaultMode for volumes which caused conflicts with the default OpenShift settings. Now, operand deployment does not update constantly and accepts extra containers. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-2793[OCPBUGS-2793].

Reviewer: Note use of "the" here.

[id="external-dns-operator-release-notes-1.0.0"]
== ExternalDNS Operator 1.0.0

The following advisory is available for the ExternalDNS Operator version 1.0.0:

> * link:https://errata.engineering.redhat.com/advisory/95630:[RHEA-2022:5867 ExternalDNS Operator 1.0 operator/operand containers]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* link:https://access.redhat.com/errata/RHEA-2022:5867[RHEA-2022:5867 ExternalDNS Operator 1.0 operator/operand containers]
```

[id="external-dns-operator-1.0.0-bug-fixes"]
=== Bug fixes

> * Previously, ExternalDNS Operator issued an unnecessary warning during standard ExternalDNS operand pod deployments. link:https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=2086408[2086408]

Reviewer: Same as above. 

```suggestion
* Previously, ExternalDNS Operator issued an unnecessary warning during standard ExternalDNS operand pod deployments. This issue has been resolved. link:https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=2086408[2086408]
```

toc::[]

The ExternalDNS Operator deploys and manages `ExternalDNS` to provide the name resolution for services and routes from the external DNS provider to OpenShift Container Platform.

These release notes track the development of the ExternalDNS Operator in {product-title}.

[id="external-dns-operator-release-notes-1.2.0"]
== ExternalDNS Operator 1.2.0

The following advisory is available for the ExternalDNS Operator version 1.2.0:

* link:https://access.redhat.com/errata/RHEA-2023:7239[RHEA-2022:5867 ExternalDNS Operator 1.2 operator/operand containers]

[id="external-dns-operator-1.2.0-new-features"]
=== New features

The ExternalDNS now supports sharedVPC.

For more information, see xref:../../networking/external_dns_operator/nw-creating-dns-records-on-aws.adoc#nw-control-dns-records-public-aws-with-VPC_creating-dns-records-on-aws[Creating DNS records on an public hosted zone for AWS by using Red Hat External DNS Operator].

[id="external-dns-operator-1.2.0-bug-fixes"]
=== Bug fixes

* Previously, the ExternalDNS Operator issued an unnecessary warning during standard ExternalDNS operand pod deployments. This issue has been resolved.

> *  link:https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=2086408[BZ#2086408]

Author: Fixed

[id="external-dns-operator-release-notes-1.1.0"]
== ExternalDNS Operator 1.1.0

This release included a rebase of the operand from the upstream project version 0.13.1. The following advisory is available for the ExternalDNS Operator version 1.1.0:

* link:https://access.redhat.com/errata/RHEA-2022:9086[RHEA-2022:9086-01 ExternalDNS Operator 1.1 operator/operand containers]

[id="external-dns-operator-1.1.0-bug-fix"]
=== Bug fixes

> * Previously, the ExternalDNS Operator operands default enforced empty defaultMode for volumes which caused conflicts with the default OpenShift settings. Now, operand deployment does not update constantly and accepts extra containers. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-2793[OCPBUGS-2793].

Author: Thanks!

[id="external-dns-operator-release-notes-1.0.0"]
== ExternalDNS Operator 1.0.0

The following advisory is available for the ExternalDNS Operator version 1.0.0:

* link:https://access.redhat.com/errata/RHEA-2022:5867[RHEA-2022:5867 ExternalDNS Operator 1.0 operator/operand containers]

[id="external-dns-operator-1.0.0-bug-fixes"]
=== Bug fixes

> * Previously, the ExternalDNS Operator issued an unnecessary warning during standard ExternalDNS operand pod deployments. This issue has been resolved. link:https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=2086408[2086408]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Previously, the ExternalDNS Operator issued a warning about the violation of the restricted SCC policy during ExternalDNS operand pod deployments. This issue has been resolved. link:https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=2086408[2086408]
```

Author: Fixed! Thank you!

// ExternalDNS Operator Release Notes
:_mod-docs-content-type: ASSEMBLY
[id="external-dns-operator-release-notes"]
= ExternalDNS Operator release notes
:context: external-dns-operator-release-notes
include::_attributes/common-attributes.adoc[]

toc::[]

The ExternalDNS Operator deploys and manages `ExternalDNS` to provide name resolution for services and routes from the external DNS provider to OpenShift Container Platform.

These release notes track the development of the ExternalDNS Operator in {product-title}.

[id="external-dns-operator-release-notes-1.2.0"]
== ExternalDNS Operator 1.2.0

The following advisory is available for the ExternalDNS Operator version 1.2.0:

* link:https://access.redhat.com/errata/RHEA-2023:7239[RHEA-2022:5867 ExternalDNS Operator 1.2 operator/operand containers]

[id="external-dns-operator-1.2.0-new-features"]
=== New features

> * The ExternalDNS Operator now supports shared VPC. For more information, see xref:../../networking/external_dns_operator/nw-creating-dns-records-on-aws.adoc#nw-control-dns-records-public-aws-with-VPC_creating-dns-records-on-aws[Creating DNS records on a public hosted zone for AWS by using Red Hat External DNS Operator].

Author: I'm not; I'll get a validation from someone else.

> * The ExternalDNS Operator now supports shared VPC. For more information, see xref:../../networking/external_dns_operator/nw-creating-dns-records-on-aws.adoc#nw-control-dns-records-public-aws-with-VPC_creating-dns-records-on-aws[Creating DNS records on a public hosted zone for AWS by using Red Hat External DNS Operator].

Author: added

> * The update strategy for the operand changed from `Rolling` to `Recreate`. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-3630link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-3630[OCPBUGS-3630]

Author: okay

> // External DNS Operator Release Notes

Reviewer 3: Really minor nit, but I would remove this commented-out line so that the content type line is on line 1.

Author: Thank you

:_mod-docs-content-type: ASSEMBLY
[id="external-dns-operator-release-notes"]

> = ExternalDNS Operator release notes

Author: Changed except where a reference to the advisories

:context: external-dns-operator-release-notes
include::_attributes/common-attributes.adoc[]

toc::[]

> The ExternalDNS Operator deploys and manages `ExternalDNS` to provide name resolution for services and routes from the external DNS provider to OpenShift Container Platform.

Reviewer 3: s/OpenShift Container Platform/{product-title}

> The External DNS Operator deploys and manages `ExternalDNS` to provide name resolution for services and routes from the external DNS provider to OpenShift Container Platform.

Reviewer 3: s/OpenShift Container Platform/{product-title}

Author: yep

These release notes track the development of the ExternalDNS Operator in {product-title}.

[id="external-dns-operator-release-notes-1.2.0"]
== ExternalDNS Operator 1.2.0

The following advisory is available for the ExternalDNS Operator version 1.2.0:

* link:https://access.redhat.com/errata/RHEA-2023:7239[RHEA-2022:5867 ExternalDNS Operator 1.2 operator/operand containers]

[id="external-dns-operator-1.2.0-new-features"]
=== New features

> * The ExternalDNS Operator now supports AWS shared VPC. For more information, see xref:../../networking/external_dns_operator/nw-creating-dns-records-on-aws.adoc#nw-control-dns-records-public-aws-with-VPC_creating-dns-records-on-aws[Creating DNS records on a public hosted zone for AWS by using Red Hat External DNS Operator].

Reviewer 3: The link goes to a different section than the link text suggests. Based on the context, I think the link text needs to change to match the section you're linking to:

```suggestion
* The ExternalDNS Operator now supports AWS shared VPC. For more information, see xref:../../networking/external_dns_operator/nw-creating-dns-records-on-aws.adoc#nw-control-dns-records-public-aws-with-VPC_creating-dns-records-on-aws[Creating DNS records in a different AWS Account using a shared VPC].
```

> * The External DNS Operator now supports AWS shared VPC. For more information, see xref:../../networking/external_dns_operator/nw-creating-dns-records-on-aws.adoc#nw-control-dns-records-public-aws-with-VPC_creating-dns-records-on-aws[Creating DNS records on a public hosted zone for AWS by using Red Hat External DNS Operator].

Reviewer 3: The link goes to a different section than the link text suggests. Based on the context, I think the link text needs to change to match the section you're linking to:

```suggestion
* The External DNS Operator now supports AWS shared VPC. For more information, see xref:../../networking/external_dns_operator/nw-creating-dns-records-on-aws.adoc#nw-control-dns-records-public-aws-with-VPC_creating-dns-records-on-aws[Creating DNS records in a different AWS Account using a shared VPC].
```

Author: Thank you

[id="external-dns-operator-1.2.0-bug-fixes"]
=== Bug fixes

> * The update strategy for the operand changed from `Rolling` to `Recreate`. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-3630link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-3630[OCPBUGS-3630]

Reviewer 3: There are two links here :) Also, consider using the formatting for bug links found in other OCP RNs:

```suggestion
* The update strategy for the operand changed from `Rolling` to `Recreate`. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-3630[*OCPBUGS-3630*])
```

Author: Thanks!

[id="external-dns-operator-release-notes-1.1.1"]
== ExternalDNS Operator 1.1.1

The following advisory is available for the ExternalDNS Operator version 1.1.1:

* link:https://access.redhat.com/errata/RHEA-2024:0536[RHEA-2024:0536 ExternalDNS Operator 1.1 operator/operand containers]

[id="external-dns-operator-release-notes-1.1.0"]
== ExternalDNS Operator 1.1.0

> This release included a rebase of the operand from the upstream project version 0.13.1. The following advisory is available for the ExternalDNS Operator version 1.1.0:

Reviewer 3: Is there a name for the upstream project or is it the same name? You might want to be more specific if possible.

* link:https://access.redhat.com/errata/RHEA-2022:9086[RHEA-2022:9086-01 ExternalDNS Operator 1.1 operator/operand containers]

[id="external-dns-operator-1.1.0-bug-fix"]
=== Bug fixes

> * Previously, the ExternalDNS Operator enforced empty `defaultMode` for volumes which caused conflicts with the OpenShift API defaulting. Now, the `defaultMode` is not enforced and operand deployment does not update constantly. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-2793[OCPBUGS-2793]

Reviewer 3: Suggestion for clarity, plus another bug link formatting suggestion:

```suggestion
* Previously, the ExternalDNS Operator enforced an empty `defaultMode` value for volumes, which caused constant updates due to a conflict with the OpenShift API. Now, the `defaultMode` value is not enforced and operand deployment does not update constantly. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-2793[*OCPBUGS-2793*])
```

> * Previously, the External DNS Operator enforced empty `defaultMode` for volumes which caused conflicts with the OpenShift API defaulting. Now, the `defaultMode` is not enforced and operand deployment does not update constantly. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-2793[OCPBUGS-2793]

Reviewer 3: Suggestion for clarity, plus another bug link formatting suggestion:

```suggestion
* Previously, the External DNS Operator enforced an empty `defaultMode` value for volumes, which caused constant updates due to a conflict with the OpenShift API. Now, the `defaultMode` value is not enforced and operand deployment does not update constantly. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-2793[*OCPBUGS-2793*])
```

Author: yes

[id="external-dns-operator-release-notes-1.0.1"]
== ExternalDNS Operator 1.0.1

The following advisory is available for the ExternalDNS Operator version 1.0.1:

* link:https://access.redhat.com/errata/RHEA-2024:0537[RHEA-2024:0537 ExternalDNS Operator 1.0 operator/operand containers]

[id="external-dns-operator-release-notes-1.0.0"]
== ExternalDNS Operator 1.0.0

The following advisory is available for the ExternalDNS Operator version 1.0.0:

* link:https://access.redhat.com/errata/RHEA-2022:5867[RHEA-2022:5867 ExternalDNS Operator 1.0 operator/operand containers]

[id="external-dns-operator-1.0.0-bug-fixes"]
=== Bug fixes

> * Previously, the ExternalDNS Operator issued a warning about the violation of the restricted SCC policy during ExternalDNS operand pod deployments. This issue has been resolved. link:https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=2086408[2086408]

Reviewer 3: Bug link formatting:

```suggestion
* Previously, the ExternalDNS Operator issued a warning about the violation of the restricted SCC policy during ExternalDNS operand pod deployments. This issue has been resolved. (link:https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=2086408[*BZ#2086408*])
```

> * Previously, the External DNS Operator issued a warning about the violation of the restricted SCC policy during ExternalDNS operand pod deployments. This issue has been resolved. link:https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=2086408[2086408]

Reviewer 3: Bug link formatting:

```suggestion
* Previously, the External DNS Operator issued a warning about the violation of the restricted SCC policy during ExternalDNS operand pod deployments. This issue has been resolved. (link:https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=2086408[*BZ#2086408*])
```

Author: TY

// ExternalDNS Operator Release Notes
:_mod-docs-content-type: ASSEMBLY
[id="external-dns-operator-release-notes"]
= ExternalDNS Operator release notes
:context: external-dns-operator-release-notes
include::_attributes/common-attributes.adoc[]

toc::[]

> The ExternalDNS Operator deploys and manages `ExternalDNS` to provide the name resolution for services and routes from the external DNS provider to OpenShift Container Platform.

Reviewer 4: "The" is unnecessary before "name resolution."

Author: check

These release notes track the development of the ExternalDNS Operator in {product-title}.

[id="external-dns-operator-release-notes-1.2.0"]
== ExternalDNS Operator 1.2.0

The following advisory is available for the ExternalDNS Operator version 1.2.0:

* link:https://access.redhat.com/errata/RHEA-2023:7239[RHEA-2022:5867 ExternalDNS Operator 1.2 operator/operand containers]

[id="external-dns-operator-1.2.0-new-features"]
=== New features

> The ExternalDNS Operator now supports shared VPC.

Reviewer 4: Eacn new feature should be its own bullet point in this section.

Author: mistake was made, one should be a bug fix

> The ExternalDNS Operator now supports sharedVPC.

Reviewer 4: "shared VPC"

Author: check

> For more information, see xref:../../networking/external_dns_operator/nw-creating-dns-records-on-aws.adoc#nw-control-dns-records-public-aws-with-VPC_creating-dns-records-on-aws[Creating DNS records on an public hosted zone for AWS by using Red Hat External DNS Operator].

Reviewer 4: Typo: "a public hosted zone", not "an"

Author: check

> The update strategy for the operand changed from `Rolling` to `Recreate`. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-3630

Reviewer 4: We need to label the link appropriately: `link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-3630[OCPBUGS-3630]`

Author: oops

[id="external-dns-operator-1.2.0-bug-fixes"]
=== Bug fixes

> 

Reviewer 4: @alebedev87 Are there bug fixes that should be listed for 1.2.0?

Reviewer 2: Yes, https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-3630 which is now listed in `New features` should be put into the `Bug fixes`.

Author: Fixed

[id="external-dns-operator-release-notes-1.1.1"]
== ExternalDNS Operator 1.1.1

The following advisory is available for the ExternalDNS Operator version 1.1.1:

> * link:https://access.redhat.com/errata/RHEA-2024:0536

Reviewer 4: This link needs to be labeled like the one on line 19.

[id="external-dns-operator-release-notes-1.1.0"]
== ExternalDNS Operator 1.1.0

This release included a rebase of the operand from the upstream project version 0.13.1. The following advisory is available for the ExternalDNS Operator version 1.1.0:

* link:https://access.redhat.com/errata/RHEA-2022:9086[RHEA-2022:9086-01 ExternalDNS Operator 1.1 operator/operand containers]

[id="external-dns-operator-1.1.0-bug-fix"]
=== Bug fixes

* Previously, the ExternalDNS Operator enforced empty `defaultMode` for volumes which caused conflicts with the OpenShift API defaulting. Now, the `defaultMode` is not enforced and operand deployment does not update constantly. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-2793[OCPBUGS-2793]

[id="external-dns-operator-release-notes-1.0.1"]
== ExternalDNS Operator 1.0.1

The following advisory is available for the ExternalDNS Operator version 1.0.1:

> * link:https://access.redhat.com/errata/RHEA-2024:0537

Reviewer 4: This link needs to be labeled like the one on line 19.

[id="external-dns-operator-release-notes-1.0.0"]
== ExternalDNS Operator 1.0.0

The following advisory is available for the ExternalDNS Operator version 1.0.0:

* link:https://access.redhat.com/errata/RHEA-2022:5867[RHEA-2022:5867 ExternalDNS Operator 1.0 operator/operand containers]

[id="external-dns-operator-1.0.0-bug-fixes"]
=== Bug fixes

* Previously, the ExternalDNS Operator issued a warning about the violation of the restricted SCC policy during ExternalDNS operand pod deployments. This issue has been resolved. link:https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=2086408[2086408]

> * Previously, the ExternalDNS Operator issued an unnecessary warning during standard ExternalDNS operand pod deployments. This issue has been resolved. link:https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=2086408[BZ#2086408]

Reviewer 4: This line should be removed.
